1. Mean stack developer:
This program will advance your career as a MEAN stack developer. You’ll learn top skills such as MongoDB, Express.js, Angular, and Node.js (“MEAN”), plus GIT, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build and deploy interactive applications and services.

2. Kafka:
Apache Kafka is an open-source stream-processing software platform developed by the Apache Software Foundation, written in Scala and Java. Kafka is often used in real-time streaming data architectures to provide real-time analytics

3. Kafka vs RabbitMQ:

4. Web server vs application server.
A server is a central repository where information and computer programs are held and accessed by the programmer within the network. Web server and Application server are kinds of the server which employed to deliver sites and therefore the latter deals with application operations performed between users and back-end business applications of the organization.

Web Server: It is a computer program that accepts the request for data and sends the specified documents. Web server may be a computer where the online content is kept. Essentially internet server is employed to host sites however there exist different web servers conjointly like recreation, storage, FTP, email, etc.
Example of Web Servers:
Apache Tomcat
Resin
Application server: It encompasses Web container as well as EJB container. Application servers organize the run atmosphere for enterprises applications. Application server may be a reasonably server that mean how to put operating system, hosting the applications and services for users, IT services and organizations. In this, user interface similarly as protocol and RPC/RMI protocols are used.
1) Web server encompasses web container only. While application server encompasses Web container as well as EJB container.
2) Web server is useful or fitted for static content. Whereas application server is fitted for dynamic content.
3) Web server consumes or utilizes less resources. While application server utilize more resources.
4) Web servers arrange the run environment for web applications. While application servers arrange the run environment for enterprises applications.
5) In web servers, multithreading is not supported. While in application server, multithreading is supported.
6) Web server’s capacity is lower than application server. While application server’s capacity is higher than web server.
7)In web server, HTML and HTTP protocols are used. While in this, GUI as well as HTTP and RPC/RMI protocols are used.



