1. Restful Api
Restful Web Service is a lightweight, maintainable, and scalable service that is built on the REST architecture. Restful Web Service, expose API from your application in a secure, uniform, stateless manner to the calling client. The underlying protocol for REST is HTTP. Another important thing associated with REST is resource methods to be used to perform the desired transition. A large number of people wrongly relate resource methods to HTTP GET/PUT/POST/DELETE methods.

2. You are working on which protocal.
HTTP(Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)

3. SOAP
Simple Object Access Protocol(SOAP) is a network protocol for exchanging structured data between nodes. It uses XML format to transfer messages. It works on top of application layer protocols like HTML and SMTP for notations and transmission. SOAP allows processes to communicate throughout platforms, languages and operating systems, since protocols like HTTP are already installed on all platforms.

3. SOAP(Simple Object Access Protocol) Vs. REST( Representational State Transfer): Difference between Web API Services.
1. SOAP uses only XML for exchanging information in its message format whereas REST is not restricted to XML and its the choice of implementer which Media-Type to use like XML, JSON, Plain-text. Moreover, REST can use SOAP protocol but SOAP cannot use REST.
2. SOAP needs more bandwidth for its usage whereas REST doesn’t need much bandwidth.
3. On the basis of Security, SOAP has SSL( Secure Socket Layer) and WS-security whereas REST has SSL and HTTPS. In the case of Bank Account Password, Card Number, etc. SOAP is preferred over REST. The security issue is all about your application requirement, you have to build security on your own. It’s about what type of protocol you use.
4. Benefits of SOAP over REST as SOAP has ACID complaints transaction. Some of the applications require transaction ability which is accepted by SOAP whereas REST lacks in it.

5. Stateless vs Stateful
1. Stateless Protocol is a network protocol in which Client send request to the server and server response back as per the given state. where as Stateful Protocol is a network protocol in which if client send a request to the server then it expects some kind of response, in case of no response then it resend the request.
2. HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol), UDP (User Datagram Protocol), DNS (Domain Name System) where as FTP (File Transfer Protocol), Telnet.
3. In Stateless, server is not needed to keep the server information or session details to itself. where as In stateful, a server is required to maintain the current state and session information.
4. A failed server can be restarted easily after crash. where as A server has to keep the information of session and other details. Crash management is difficult.
5. In stateless, server and client are loosely coupled and can act independently. where as In stateful, server and client are tightly bound.
